charts/devlake/README.md, before:

# Deploy devlake with helm

## Prerequisites

- Helm >= 3.6.0
- Kubernetes >= 1.19.0


## Quick Install

clone the code
```
helm install devlake charts/devlake
```

And visit your devlake Config-UI  from the nodePort (32001 by default) and Grafana Dashboard from the nodePort ( 32002 by default.)

http://YOUR-NODE-IP:32001 for Config-UI
http://YOUR-NODE-IP:32002 for Grafana Dashboard

Note : You must provide the connection to the port through the Inbound rules of the cluster. You may found it in the cluster security group or the cluster firewall.


## Some example deployments

### Deploy with NodePort

Conditions:
 - IP Address of Kubernetes node: 192.168.0.6
 - Want to visit devlake with port 30000.

```
helm install devlake . --set service.uiPort=30000
```

After deployed, visit devlake: http://192.168.0.6:30000

### Deploy with Ingress

Conditions:
 - I have already configured default ingress for the Kubernetes cluster
 - I want to use http://devlake.example.com for visiting devlake

```
helm install devlake . --set "ingress.enabled=true,ingress.hostname=devlake.example.com"
```

After deployed, visit devlake: http://devlake.example.com, and grafana at http://devlake.example.com/grafana

### Deploy with Ingress (Https)

Conditions:
 - I have already configured ingress(class: nginx) for the Kubernetes cluster, and the https using 8443 port.
 - I want to use https://devlake-0.example.com:8443 for visiting devlake.
 - The https certificates are generated by letsencrypt.org, and the certificate and key files: `cert.pem` and `key.pem`

First, create the secret:
```
kubectl create secret tls ssl-certificate --cert cert.pem --key secret.pem
```

Then, deploy the devlake:
```
helm install devlake . \
    --set "ingress.enabled=true,ingress.enableHttps=true,ingress.hostname=devlake-0.example.com" \
    --set "ingress.className=nginx,ingress.httpsPort=8443" \
    --set "ingress.tlsSecretName=ssl-certificate"
```

After deployed, visit devlake: https://devlake-0.example.com:8443, and grafana at https://devlake-0.example.com:8443/grafana


## Parameters

Some useful parameters for the chart, you could also check them in values.yaml

| Parameter                     | Description                                                | Default             |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| replicaCount                  | Replica Count for devlake, currently not used              | 1                   |
| mysql.useExternal             | If use external mysql server, set true                     | false               |
| mysql.externalServer          | External mysql server address                              | 127.0.0.1           |
| mysql.externalPort            | External mysql server port                                 | 3306                |
| mysql.username                | username for mysql                                         | merico              |
| mysql.password                | password for mysql                                         | merico              |
| mysql.database                | database for mysql                                         | lake                |
| mysql.rootPassword            | root password for mysql                                    | admin               |
| mysql.storage.class           | storage class for mysql's volume                           | ""                  |
| mysql.storage.size            | volume size for mysql's data                               | 5Gi                 |
| mysql.image.repository        | repository for mysql's image                               | mysql               |
| mysql.image.tag               | image tag for mysql's image                                | 8.0.31              |
| mysql.image.pullPolicy        | pullPolicy for mysql's image                               | IfNotPresent        |
| pgsql.useExternal             | If use external pgsql server, set true                     | false               |
| pgsql.externalServer          | External pgsql server address                              | 127.0.0.1           |
| pgsql.externalPort            | External pgsql server port                                 | 3306                |
| pgsql.username                | username for pgsql                                         | merico              |
| pgsql.password                | password for pgsql                                         | merico              |
| pgsql.database                | database for pgsql                                         | lake                |
| pgsql.storage.class           | storage class for pgsql's volume                           | ""                  |
| pgsql.storage.size            | volume size for pgsql's data                               | 5Gi                 |
| pgsql.image.repository        | repository for pgsql's image                               | postgres            |
| pgsql.image.tag               | image tag for pgsql's image                                | 14.5                |
| pgsql.image.pullPolicy        | pullPolicy for pgsql's image                               | IfNotPresent        |
| grafana.image.repository      | repository for grafana's image                             | mericodev/grafana   |
| grafana.image.tag             | image tag for grafana's image                              | latest              |
| grafana.image.pullPolicy      | pullPolicy for grafana's image                             | Always              |
| lake.storage.class            | storage class for lake's volume                            | ""                  |
| lake.storage.size             | volume size for lake's data                                | 100Mi               |
| lake.image.repository         | repository for lake's image                                | mericodev/lake      |
| lake.image.tag                | image tag for lake's image                                 | latest              |
| lake.image.pullPolicy         | pullPolicy for lake's image                                | Always              |
| lake.loggingDir               | log dir for the lake server                                | /app/logs           |
| lake.loggingLevel             | log level for the lake server                              | info                |
| ui.image.repository           | repository for ui's image                                  | mericodev/config-ui |
| ui.image.tag                  | image tag for ui's image                                   | latest              |
| ui.image.pullPolicy           | pullPolicy for ui's image                                  | Always              |
| ui.basicAuth.enabled          | If the basic auth in ui is enabled                         | false               |
| ui.basicAuth.user             | The user name for the basic auth                           | "admin"             |
| ui.basicAuth.password         | The password for the basic auth                            | "admin"             |
| service.type                  | Service type for exposed service                           | NodePort            |
| service.uiPort                | Node port for config ui                                    | 32001               |
| service.ingress.enabled       | If enable ingress                                          | false               |
| service.ingress.enableHttps   | If enable https                                            | false               |
| service.ingress.className     | Class name for ingressClass. leave empty for using default | ""                  |
| service.ingress.hostname      | The hostname/domainname for ingress                        | localhost           |
| service.ingress.prefix        | The prefix for endpoints, currently not used               | /                   |
| service.ingress.tlsSecretName | The secret name for tls's certificate for https            | ""                  |
| service.ingress.httpPort      | The http port for ingress                                  | 80                  |
| service.ingress.httpsPort     | The https port for ingress                                 | 443                 |
| option.localtime              | The hostpath for mount as /etc/localtime                   | /etc/localtime      |
| option.database               | The database type, valids: mysql, pgsql                    | mysql               |

Commit message:

Workaround for API_REQUESTS_PER_HOUR (#59)
* Workaround for API_REQUESTS_PER_HOUR

- Need refactorying env config later

Signed-off-by: Ji Bin <matrixji@live.com>

* Update Chart.yaml

* Update values.yaml

Signed-off-by: Ji Bin <matrixji@live.com>
Co-authored-by: Warren Chen <yingchu.chen@merico.dev>

charts/devlake/README.md, after:

# Deploy devlake with helm

## Prerequisites

- Helm >= 3.6.0
- Kubernetes >= 1.19.0


## Quick Install

clone the code
```
helm install devlake charts/devlake
```

And visit your devlake Config-UI  from the nodePort (32001 by default) and Grafana Dashboard from the nodePort ( 32002 by default.)

http://YOUR-NODE-IP:32001 for Config-UI
http://YOUR-NODE-IP:32002 for Grafana Dashboard

Note : You must provide the connection to the port through the Inbound rules of the cluster. You may found it in the cluster security group or the cluster firewall.


## Some example deployments

### Deploy with NodePort

Conditions:
 - IP Address of Kubernetes node: 192.168.0.6
 - Want to visit devlake with port 30000.

```
helm install devlake . --set service.uiPort=30000
```

After deployed, visit devlake: http://192.168.0.6:30000

### Deploy with Ingress

Conditions:
 - I have already configured default ingress for the Kubernetes cluster
 - I want to use http://devlake.example.com for visiting devlake

```
helm install devlake . --set "ingress.enabled=true,ingress.hostname=devlake.example.com"
```

After deployed, visit devlake: http://devlake.example.com, and grafana at http://devlake.example.com/grafana

### Deploy with Ingress (Https)

Conditions:
 - I have already configured ingress(class: nginx) for the Kubernetes cluster, and the https using 8443 port.
 - I want to use https://devlake-0.example.com:8443 for visiting devlake.
 - The https certificates are generated by letsencrypt.org, and the certificate and key files: `cert.pem` and `key.pem`

First, create the secret:
```
kubectl create secret tls ssl-certificate --cert cert.pem --key secret.pem
```

Then, deploy the devlake:
```
helm install devlake . \
    --set "ingress.enabled=true,ingress.enableHttps=true,ingress.hostname=devlake-0.example.com" \
    --set "ingress.className=nginx,ingress.httpsPort=8443" \
    --set "ingress.tlsSecretName=ssl-certificate"
```

After deployed, visit devlake: https://devlake-0.example.com:8443, and grafana at https://devlake-0.example.com:8443/grafana


## Parameters

Some useful parameters for the chart, you could also check them in values.yaml

| Parameter                     | Description                                                | Default             |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| replicaCount                  | Replica Count for devlake, currently not used              | 1                   |
| mysql.useExternal             | If use external mysql server, set true                     | false               |
| mysql.externalServer          | External mysql server address                              | 127.0.0.1           |
| mysql.externalPort            | External mysql server port                                 | 3306                |
| mysql.username                | username for mysql                                         | merico              |
| mysql.password                | password for mysql                                         | merico              |
| mysql.database                | database for mysql                                         | lake                |
| mysql.rootPassword            | root password for mysql                                    | admin               |
| mysql.storage.class           | storage class for mysql's volume                           | ""                  |
| mysql.storage.size            | volume size for mysql's data                               | 5Gi                 |
| mysql.image.repository        | repository for mysql's image                               | mysql               |
| mysql.image.tag               | image tag for mysql's image                                | 8.0.31              |
| mysql.image.pullPolicy        | pullPolicy for mysql's image                               | IfNotPresent        |
| pgsql.useExternal             | If use external pgsql server, set true                     | false               |
| pgsql.externalServer          | External pgsql server address                              | 127.0.0.1           |
| pgsql.externalPort            | External pgsql server port                                 | 3306                |
| pgsql.username                | username for pgsql                                         | merico              |
| pgsql.password                | password for pgsql                                         | merico              |
| pgsql.database                | database for pgsql                                         | lake                |
| pgsql.storage.class           | storage class for pgsql's volume                           | ""                  |
| pgsql.storage.size            | volume size for pgsql's data                               | 5Gi                 |
| pgsql.image.repository        | repository for pgsql's image                               | postgres            |
| pgsql.image.tag               | image tag for pgsql's image                                | 14.5                |
| pgsql.image.pullPolicy        | pullPolicy for pgsql's image                               | IfNotPresent        |
| grafana.image.repository      | repository for grafana's image                             | mericodev/grafana   |
| grafana.image.tag             | image tag for grafana's image                              | latest              |
| grafana.image.pullPolicy      | pullPolicy for grafana's image                             | Always              |
| lake.storage.class            | storage class for lake's volume                            | ""                  |
| lake.storage.size             | volume size for lake's data                                | 100Mi               |
| lake.image.repository         | repository for lake's image                                | mericodev/lake      |
| lake.image.tag                | image tag for lake's image                                 | latest              |
| lake.image.pullPolicy         | pullPolicy for lake's image                                | Always              |
| lake.loggingDir               | log dir for the lake server                                | /app/logs           |
| lake.loggingLevel             | log level for the lake server                              | info                |
| lake.dotenv                   | initial configurations for injecting to lake's .env        | see Values.yaml     |
| ui.image.repository           | repository for ui's image                                  | mericodev/config-ui |
| ui.image.tag                  | image tag for ui's image                                   | latest              |
| ui.image.pullPolicy           | pullPolicy for ui's image                                  | Always              |
| ui.basicAuth.enabled          | If the basic auth in ui is enabled                         | false               |
| ui.basicAuth.user             | The user name for the basic auth                           | "admin"             |
| ui.basicAuth.password         | The password for the basic auth                            | "admin"             |
| service.type                  | Service type for exposed service                           | NodePort            |
| service.uiPort                | Node port for config ui                                    | 32001               |
| service.ingress.enabled       | If enable ingress                                          | false               |
| service.ingress.enableHttps   | If enable https                                            | false               |
| service.ingress.className     | Class name for ingressClass. leave empty for using default | ""                  |
| service.ingress.hostname      | The hostname/domainname for ingress                        | localhost           |
| service.ingress.prefix        | The prefix for endpoints, currently not used               | /                   |
| service.ingress.tlsSecretName | The secret name for tls's certificate for https            | ""                  |
| service.ingress.httpPort      | The http port for ingress                                  | 80                  |
| service.ingress.httpsPort     | The https port for ingress                                 | 443                 |
| option.localtime              | The hostpath for mount as /etc/localtime                   | /etc/localtime      |
| option.database               | The database type, valids: mysql, pgsql                    | mysql               |
